# Water-Potability
Clean water is a health and development issue at the national, regional, and local level. This study seeks to find potability of different bodies of water to determine which factors affect the safety of our drinking water infrastructure. This would give us a baseline idea of what factors lead to more dangerous water and how much of each substance can be neglected. For clarity, potability is defined as fit to drink. We hope that this analysis can be used by respective government agencies so that these substances can be better regulated in our drinking water. Every variable in this study can be regulated by the government so it is fundamental to their understanding to know which ones negatively affect our drinking water. Furthermore, we will find the accuracies of the models we create to find the best model in determining water potability. This is a classification problem so we will use classification methods to solve the problem. The methods we chose for classification were gradient descent/logistic regression model, K Nearest Neighbors, and decision trees. Unlike linear regression where we can use linear regression methods to compute the coefficients, it is necessary to use gradient descent to estimate the coefficients for logistic regression models for classification. Furthermore, we will use K Nearest Neighbors models as another classification method. For this particular model, we will use parallel computing to compute different K Nearest Neighbors models with different values of K because this method becomes very slow as the dataset increases in size. The final model that we will create is the decision tree, which splits the dataset into smaller and smaller clusters for classification. In this report, we will implement the decision tree from scratch and compare this model to the built in decision tree model. After making the models, we will create confusion matrices to compare the results and choose the best model based on the highest accuracy.
